I get over 10 million organic views on
my Instagram every single month. And in
this episode, I'm going to share with
you the exact systems that I use to make
that happen. Today's episode is brought
to you by Metricool, which is what I
have used to schedule pretty much 90% of
my posts on Instagram for the last 5
years. And not to spoil where we're
headed, but it's a big part of my
system. It's the beginning of March when
I'm recording this. So, just to show you
some screenshots as proof, if I look
back at the month of December, and not
even the entire month, just December 9th
through the end of December, I got 12.8
million views that month. In the month
of January, I got 16.9 million views.
And in February, I got 13.6 million
views. But before you understand my
system for getting this many views, it's
important that we're on the same page
with how the algorithm works and why I'm
doing what I'm doing with my system.
When we're talking about the Instagram
feed, it is true to say the following
eight words. And I'm sorry if I sound
like a broken record because I don't
think I can get through a Build Your
Drive episode without saying this, but
the more you post, the more you grow.
There have been numerous studies that
have shown that the more frequently you
post to your Instagram feed, the more
you will grow. And on top of that, the
more your monthly impressions will
increase. Or to say it another way, the
more you post, the more views you will
get every single month. But even if that
wasn't the case for the algorithm, I
would still be a proponent of posting
more because it's essentially practice.
If you think about the sports world or
really any skill that you want to
develop, it makes sense that if you want
to get better, you practice. You put in
the reps and you continue showing up.
But then, when we think about content, I
don't know if it's because our ego gets
involved, I don't know if it's because
the algorithm is confusing, know if it's
because people view content as art, but
it is true to say that the more you
post, the better your posts will become.
What I'm about to say is going to sound
absolutely insane coming from someone
who literally has an entire podcast
dedicated to helping you grow and create
better posts, but the way that you
actually create better posts, the way
that you actually grow, is not by
watching and listening to more podcasts,
it's not by reading more blogs, it's not
by combing through Reddit and reading
more tutorials. The way that you get
better is by posting more. Sure, people
like me can give you tips and strategies
and ideas. Sure, we can get the ball
rolling, but at the end of the day, you
are the person who has to actually press
post, or if you have a marketing team,
your marketing team has to actually
press post, or else the posts will not
improve. And this is probably the
absolute worst time to say this, but if
you haven't already, please hit that
subscribe button because I want to help
you get the ball rolling. I want to give
you the tips, ideas, and strategies that
you can use to actually create better
posts, create more posts, and thus grow
on Instagram, or even just grow your
business on social media in general. And
the final reason that I'm a proponent of
posting more is because we never know
what is going to go viral. So many times
I talk to business owners and content
creators and marketers who say that they
work really hard on posts that that they
think are going to do well, and then
they post them, and they flop, and they
fail, and they don't get the views they
expected, and then the complete opposite
happens. They just kind of whip up a
post without thinking much of it, and
it's the least expected post that does
well, that outperforms the average, or
maybe even goes viral. And so that's why
I'm a firm believer that you never
really know what is going to go viral,
and that's why you got to just press
post. And the more often you post, the
more likely you are to get lucky and go
viral. But with all that being said,
let's get into the actual output, the
stats. How much have I been posting?
Over the last 90 days, I have posted
roughly three to five feed posts per
day, and actually it's amounted to
exactly 400 feed posts in the last 90
days. And I want to pause right there
and ask you to think about that. If you
are posting once per day on Instagram
for the entirety of 2026,
you will post less than I have posted in
the last 90 days. And I know that sounds
crazy. I know the anxiety levels are
likely through the roof right now, but I
don't have a content team. I have
someone who helps me edit my talking
head reels, but that's really it.
Everything else is me, and I am not a
full-time content creator. I actually
spend less than a few hours per week on
my Instagram. But how do those 400 posts
break down? Let's talk about it. 137 out
of the 400 posts were carousels or
photos. I usually lump these two things
together because they perform pretty
similarly, but I do want to note that
carousels usually outperform single
image posts. That means that about 35%
of my posts are non-reels or about 1.5
posts per day are either a photo or a
carousel. Speaking of Reels, 263 of my
last 400 posts are Reels, which
represents just below three Reels per
day or 65% of my content. In addition to
those 400 feed posts, I've also posted
260 stories over the last 90 days, which
equates to about 2.9 stories per day,
but there's a lot more fluctuation and
variability within my stories because
stories don't help you grow. There are
some days where I'm posting a lot of
stories, like six, seven, eight, even
upwards of 10 stories, and then there
are even times where there's two or
three consecutive days where I have zero
stories posted. It really depends on
what I'm up to, what I'm documenting, if
there's some sort of launch or promotion
that is ongoing, and stories have a
completely different purpose. Like I
said, the goal of Instagram stories is
not to grow your following, it is
instead to build trust and convert your
followers into customers. For the
remainder of today's episode, we're only
going to be focused on the feed, not
Instagram stories, but if you do want to
get your most viewed Instagram story
ever, I posted an episode just a few
weeks ago on the exact step-by-step
formula to achieve that goal. So, if you
want to, go ahead and click on that old
episode and you can watch that. Let's
break down my different kinds of posts
even further because as you likely have
already thought of, there's a big
difference between a talking head reel
and a B-roll reel. And I also want to
say that this is what works for me. I'm
not saying that this is what you have to
do. I'm not saying that this is what you
should do. I'm saying that this is an
example of one option that is out there,
and if you want to emulate this strategy
and try it for yourself, knock your
socks off. I believe one of our ultimate
goals as entrepreneurs is to be
constantly in the mode of testing,
constantly in the mode of trial and
error. As soon as you think, "Oh, well
there's only one way to do this, there's
a right way and a wrong way, that's
where you're going to get left behind.
So, what I'm sharing with you today is
not a rule, it's not what you have to
do, but it is an idea of something that
you can try for yourself. Let's start
with my carousels. Of my last 400 posts,
10% or 40 total carousels have been
educational, 6% or 24 total carousels
have been news-related, 16 carousels or
4% have been motivational, 2% or eight
total carousels have been storytelling,
and only 1% or four total carousels have
been memes. For single images, I've
posted 48 single images that were
motivational, which equates to about 12%
of my last 400 posts, and eight of the
single images have been memes, which
works out to about 2%. For my Reels,
I've posted 180 talking head Reels,
which represents 45% of my last 400
posts, which is by far the biggest
percentage. I've posted 68 meme or trend
Reels, which equates to about 17% of my
last 400 posts, and I've only posted six
B-roll Reels out of my last 400 Reels,
which is about 1.5% of all of my posts.
If you add up my educational carousels
and my talking head Reels, which
sidebar, not all of my talking head
Reels are educational, but for our
purposes let's assume that 100% of my
talking head Reels are educational. If
you combine those two, it only equates
to 55%. So, basically what I'm trying to
say here is that education isn't
everything. In fact, education is only
about half of my posts. One of the most
popular pieces of advice in social media
marketing is to make your content
valuable, and I believe that is true,
but I also believe that that expression
has been misinterpreted. Most people
hear make your content valuable, and
they assume that that means make your
content educational. Pack it full of
tips and ideas and information, but the
reality is if your focus is on
education, your posts are likely going
to become pretty boring. Instead, you
should focus on entertainment. It's okay
to include education in your posts. It's
okay if your posts have useful
information or tips or ideas, but if
they are entertaining first and
foremost, then people won't stick around
for the education. But I bet if you did
this practice for yourself and you broke
down what kinds of posts are you making
the most often, I'd be willing to bet
that the majority of your content is
purely educational. It's giving tips,
it's sharing ideas, it's giving a
lesson, do's and don'ts. And while that
kind of content has value and that kind
of content was super popular in the
past, that's just not the way you're
going to maximize your views in 2026.
Another way that you can break down my
posts is through the lens of upcycling,
which is a strategy that I've talked
about quite a bit here at Build Your
Tribe, which is essentially the idea of
taking a post that you have previously
shared and every 60 to 90 days creating
a refreshed, new, slightly modified
version or literally re-uploading that
exact same post, same caption, same
audio, same everything a second time.
And this is really my ultimate hack for
posting as much as I do, because as
you're about to see, most of my posts
are not new. In fact, of my last 400
posts, 72 of them are recreations either
of my own posts from the past or of
already existing trends that I'm just
putting my own recreated spin on. And
that equates to about 18%. Additionally,
96 of my 400 most recent posts are
direct one-for-one duplicates. They are
re- uploads and that equates for 24%.
So, if you combine these two numbers,
that means a total of 42% of my last 400
posts have been upcycled. They have been
recreated or re-uploaded from the past.
And honestly, that number is usually
higher. Yes, right now 58% of my content
is new, which equates to about 232 of my
400 most recent posts, but that number
has been skewed because of my daily
challenge. For those of you who don't
know, I'm currently doing a challenge on
my Instagram where every single day I am
reviewing someone's reel, one of my
followers reels, until I reach 1 million
followers. We're actually closing in on
day 75 of that challenge now, and that
is a brand new reel that I'm posting
every single day. So, basically I'm
guaranteed to have at least one new reel
every day, but prior to beginning this
challenge, you can imagine that my
ratios of upcycled versus completely new
were even more in favor of the upcycled
content. Now, with all of those numbers
out of the way, let's talk about how I'm
able to achieve this. Like, what actual
systems do I use? I've tried everything,
everything in the book from one end of
the spectrum where we're talking about
creating a new post every single day. I
remember when I first got started on
Instagram and when I was first having
success, I was making a new reel every
single day, even multiple new reels
every single day. And that was a time in
my life where I had far fewer
responsibilities. Also, when we're
thinking about the world, where were we
at at that time? That was in the middle
of lockdown. So, there wasn't a lot to
do besides sit at my home and make
reels. I've also done the complete
opposite of the spectrum where I've
tried to batch content months in advance
and make zero new posts ever and take
weeks and weeks and weeks off. And there
are definitely pros and cons no matter
which end of the spectrum you're on, but
I've found a sweet spot that works
really well for me. And the sweet spot
that works for me is posting daily, or
even multiple times a day, like I've
already said, creating content
semi-weekly, so maybe once, twice, up to
three times a week, planning my content
only once a week, and reviewing my
content or its performance once a month.
And the way that I'm able to do that,
which is also the way that I'm able to
upcycle so much of my content, is by
using Metricool. Like I already said,
Metricool is the tool that I've used to
schedule about 90% of my posts for the
last 5 years, and actually about 99% of
my posts have been planned in Metricool,
even if they weren't scheduled through
Metricool. I'll explain that in just a
moment. But more than just a scheduler,
Metricool is also the tool that I use to
analyze and track all of my post
performance data to figure out what's
working, what's not, what do I need to
re-upload, and what do I need to never
ever post again because it flopped and
burned so badly. By the way, Metricool
has a free option, so if you want to
test the waters and see what it's like,
you can schedule actually quite a few
posts in Metricool for free every single
month. But if you're ready to use their
paid premium features, which is what I
recommend and what I use, you can
actually try those out for a month for
free as well by using the code BROCK, b
r o c k, at checkout or by clicking the
link down in the description below.
Again, that'll give you a month's access
to try out Metricool, see if you like
it, see if you use it, and it's totally
risk-free. But enough just talking about
it, I'm going to take you into my actual
laptop and screen record how I use
Metricool to plan my week. I'm going to
show you what my content looks like the
week of, a few weeks out, and even a few
months in advance. So let's dive in.
This is what my Metricool week looks
like at the time of recording this.
Spoiler alert, yes, I'm recording this
on Monday, March 9th. As you can see,
I've already had four posts posted
today, and I have one more scheduled for
about 30 minutes from now.
I have four posts scheduled for Tuesday,
I have three on Wednesday, three on
Thursday, four on Friday, three on
Saturday, and none of these days include
my daily reel reviews because those are
not pre-recorded, those are not
scheduled in advance. So you can
basically add a plus one to every single
one of these days. Now if I use this
little filter button up here, I can
uncheck all of the social medias to thus
hide all these posts, and I'm going to
do that just to show you these color
gradients here. These color gradients
tell me when my audience is most engaged
with my posts. So Instagram's insights
will tell you when the majority of your
followers are online, but that doesn't
always necessarily correlate with when
your followers are most engaged or most
likely to engage with your posts. And
the darker colored boxes represent hours
where my audience has in the past been
more engaged with my content. And you
notice that there is a completely white
bar at 2:00 a.m. because for some reason
I have almost never posted at the 2:00
a.m. hour. I either post around
midnight, 3:00 a.m., but I always skip
2:00 a.m. for some reason. But, you can
see how it changes slightly on different
days of the week, a little bit earlier
on Wednesday, a little bit later on
Friday. The weekends are kind of all
over the place because people's social
media habits usually change on the
weekends. But, let's get back into the
actual content for this week. I'll check
on the Instagram filter and turn that
on. And let's go through the posts that
I have scheduled today. The first one
that I had posted was this talking head
reel. I wrote the caption here, and I
scheduled it for just Instagram because
this was actually a paid partnership
reel. So, they only paid for this to be
posted on Instagram. I could have also
selected Threads, Facebook, TikTok,
whatever, but they paid for Instagram,
so they got Instagram. I also had this
carousel posted because at the time of
recording this, we are preparing for a
pretty big launch. Then I had this meme
reel. Then the next post that I want to
show you is an important one. It is this
one right here that says scheduled in
Instagram, comment send, ignoring my
wife's calls. This was a post that was
using a specific Instagram audio.
Unfortunately, at the time of recording
this, there there are no scheduling
tools that allow you to use Instagram's
built-in audio. Basically, it's a
copyright issue. And so, when there's a
specific audio, like a trending audio or
popular song that I want to use on my
reel, I will film and create that reel
in Instagram, and then I will schedule
it in Instagram. But, I will still come
here to Metricool and note it because
this is what me and my team use to
figure out when my different posts are
going live. So, even though this is
scheduled in Instagram, I create a draft
of a post. You can see it right here. It
says drafted post, and auto publish is
turned off, and it just says scheduled
in Instagram. That way myself and my
team know that this is a post that is
going to be scheduled in Instagram. I
include comment send to let myself and
my team know that there is supposed to
be an automation through ManyChat
attached to this post. So, we got to
make sure to set that up and turn that
on ahead of time. And then I have a
quick little explanation as to what the
post is, ignoring my wife's calls. So,
if I close that out and then I go to my
Instagram, you can see that this post
right here, which is my most recent
reel, is exactly that. It's a trending
audio reel where I am ignoring my wife's
phone calls because I'm busy recording
reels, and you can see in the caption
there is a call to action for people to
comment the word send for more details,
and all of that was noted in Metricool.
Now, in the week that you're currently
seeing on my schedule, not many of these
posts are du plicatable, not many of
them are upcyclable, because like I
said, we're preparing for an upcoming
launch. So, it wouldn't make sense to
post something that says, you know, hey,
we have a launch in 2 weeks, we have a
webinar next week, when that's only
really true right now. But, with that
being said, let me show you one of the
posts from this week that is upcyclable,
and I'll show you this meme just as an
example. Whenever I create a post that's
what's called evergreen, basically a
post that is upcyclable, a post that
would make sense today, it's going to
make sense 3 months from now, it's going
to make sense a year from now, probably,
I do the following operation. I first
and foremost schedule a post. I write
the caption, I click on these three
little dots, I select the cover, I tag
the audio in Instagram if there's a
specific trending audio that I need
tagged, and I fill out all the rest of
these little details if necessary. But
then, when I'm done and I hit schedule,
I will then click on the post again and
press this button that says duplicate.
When I press that button, I then simply
go forward a few months in the schedule,
and I select a random date in the
future. That way, the post is going to
be automatically upcycled without me
having to wait 3 months and then
remember, oh yeah, there was that one
really good meme that I posted, let me
go back and find it. No, it's already
scheduled to be posted a second time.
And then, I repeat this process a third
and sometimes even a fourth time. And by
doing this, it allows me to land on any
week in the future and already have a
lot of posts pre-scheduled. For example,
I will just go ahead right now, pick a
random week, let's say the second week
of June. If I click on that week, look,
there's already plenty of posts that
have been scheduled. Now, immediately my
eyes went straight to here and I noticed
that there were two posts scheduled at
the exact same time. That likely just
meant that I was upcycling a post from
the past and I luckily randomly happened
to pick the exact same date for these
two separate posts, so I'll just drag
this one a little bit down. Now, this
one's posting at 5:09 a.m. This one's
posting at 8:11. And look, this is a
random week, 3 months from the time of
recording this, and I have 11 posts
already scheduled for that week. And so
this right here is one of my best
time-saving strategies. If I was in a
coma during this week, I don't want to
put that out in the universe, but hey, I
already said it, so it's out there. If I
was in a coma during this week, I would
still have more than one post per day
going out because I've scheduled it 3
months in advance. And as we continue to
get closer to this date, I will likely
have more posts that fill up this
calendar as there are paid partnerships
that I need to attend to, as there is
breaking news that I need to talk about,
as there is new memes and trends that
pop up, and just in general new content
that I think of that I want to plug into
the open slots during this week. This
obviously allows me to post every single
day, and this is also what allows me to
only create content a few times a week.
Because if I already have two posts
scheduled for Monday, two posts
scheduled for Tuesday, three for
Wednesday, I really don't need to create
a post until Friday. And since I already
have these posts scheduled for earlier
in the week, I have more free time to
create posts for Friday in advance.
Then, like I said, I'm really only
planning my content once a week. For me,
it's usually on Sunday afternoons, I
will take a look at what my upcoming
week looks like. So, let's say that it's
currently Sunday, the 22nd of March. I
can look at this week and see, "Hey,
where are there opening slots and what
does my week look like?" And now I know
that this episode is coming out on March
30th, but the reason that March 27th is
empty is because that's my birthday and
I usually plan some different content
for my birthday. All right, I digress. I
mean, if you if you want to wish me a
happy belated birthday in the comments,
I wouldn't be mad at you for doing so,
but anyways, back into what we're
actually talking about. When I'm
planning my week, I look for a few
things. Number one, like I already
mentioned earlier, I make sure that
there are no posts that are posted at
the same time or too close together. I
usually like to give my posts at least
an hour, if not a few hours between each
of them going live. Additionally, I just
do a spot check to make sure that there
aren't too many of one kind of post in a
row. For example, this first post on
Monday is a  news-related post
with a snippet from a Build Your Tribe
episode. The second one is a somewhat
motivational text post. This next one
here is a talking head educational reel.
Then we have another motivational text
post. Basically, I'm making sure that
there aren't three motivational text
posts in a row or four memes
back-to-back-to-back or two talking head
reels an hour apart. And part of this is
also noting if anything else needs to be
slotted in. So, on Monday, I'm seeing
that we have a promotion of the podcast
with an educational carousel. And then
we have a motivational post, but there's
not really any humor. There's no memes
or no trends on Monday, and there's also
not a talking head reel. This one is
kind of like a talking head reel. It's a
snippet from a podcast that it was
turned into a carousel, but I'm noticing
that there's not a reel currently
scheduled on Monday. There's an image
post and a carousel post. So, if I
wanted to slot in a reel, what I would
do is go to my bank of pre-edited
content, which I said earlier, there is
one person on my team. I do have an
editor who edits my talking head videos
because that's something that takes a
little bit of time, energy, and effort
that I could use on something else. And
so, when that's the case, I will select
the time that I want this post to go
live, let's say around 11:00 a.m. And
I'll pull up my folder of edited content
that was created by my editor. We use a
very simple numbering system to number
all of the content that she creates for
for She has now edited over 540 Reels
for me. And then I use this green emoji
check mark to check off that I've posted
it at least once.
So, these two have already been
scheduled and posted, but let's grab
this next one that is available. I'll
just drag and drop it in, and then I can
write my caption, whatever I want my
caption to say. I can tap on these three
dots and select the cover that I want
for this Reel.
And then when I'm done, again as I've
already showed you, you just hit
schedule.
And then when that's done uploading, you
can duplicate it and schedule it again
60 to 90 days in the future. But let's
say that instead of wanting an
educational Reel for that day, I wanted
a trend Reel. What I would do then is go
to my collection of saved trend Reels.
And this is a collection that I'm
constantly keeping as I go through my
Instagram. So, all I do is go to my
saved folder on Instagram. And I do find
it's easier to do this via desktop
rather than on mobile because on mobile
it's a multi-step process, it takes a
while to load, and if you leave the
Instagram app, then it will likely
refresh and then you'll be back to
square one having to go through that
multi-step process to get back to your
saved folder. So, I just go right here
to my Instagram profile, I hit that
bookmarks button, and then I can go to
my folder that I have called reposts,
but honestly this is more like ideas,
inspiration, trends, and memes that I
want to either recreate or reuse for
myself. And this is basically an entire
folder filled with inspiration. So, this
one that you see right here is actually
the Reel that I have recently posted on
my own Instagram, the zoom in Reel that
I've actually posted earlier on the day
of recording this. This is a Reel from
my good friend Monty that I thought was
such a great idea. And so, I have
recreated my own version of this and
I've actually already scheduled it for
later this week. But just as an example,
let's take a look at this folder, and I
know that this Reel right here was super
funny. Red Resort up in Canada posted
this Reel where they were pretending
like they were flashing people on the
mountain, and then of course you can
probably see where this is going. There
was some sort of promotion on her
T-shirt. So, this is a Reel that I I do.
I could film myself pretending to flash
people as I'm on my local mountain here
in Park City, or I could go to the
downtown area, or I could go to the
local park. Maybe not the park, that
might actually get me in trouble, but
something like that where I am
recreating my own version of this reel.
I'm opening up my jacket, and there's
some sort of message written on my
T-shirt, but the joke is that at the
beginning of the reel it looks like I'm
flashing people. We've talked about
posting daily, creating posts
semi-weekly, scheduling posts once a
week, and now let's talk about reviewing
content. Like I said, I use the
analytics within Metricool because they
give both a much more high-level point
of view, so I can see from far away
what's actually happening, and then I
can dive into the nitty-gritty looking
post by post to see what's working and
what's not. I will typically go to the
analytics page and then go to the
Instagram section, and then the amount
of time that I'm looking at varies. If I
want to look at my post performance over
the last 90 days, I can easily select
last 3 months. If I want to look at just
the last week, I can do that. However, I
don't usually look at the last week
because posts can really change even 10,
14 days, or even up to a month after
they were posted. Or if I'm looking at,
"Hey, what was I posting a year ago, or
even two, or even 3 years ago that was
working? What was I doing back then?"
Because oftentimes we forget about great
posts that we had made in the past.
Oftentimes we forget, "Oh yeah, there
was that topic that I used to talk about
and people loved it, but I haven't
posted about that in a few months." So
sometimes I will even click on this date
bar up at the top, and I'll go all the
way back to like September of 2023. I'll
set the date range for couple months
around that time, and then I can scroll
down to the reel section, and I can look
at, "What were my most viewed reels
during this time? What reels during this
time got the most organic likes? What
reels during this time got the most
comments?" And I can draw inspiration
from these by easily tapping on these
three dots and then clicking "Watch the
original." Or if I want to easily
repurpose and upcycle these, I can click
on the button that says "Reuse content,"
and Metricool will automatically make a
duplicate of this post for me to
schedule for the near future.
But that's it. That's my exact system.
That is how I'm able to post so much and
thus grow so much and get over 10
million views every single month on my
Instagram. If you have any questions
about my systems, my workflow, or how
I'm able to achieve anything that I
talked about in today's episode, please
feel free to write them down below
because this is one of those things
where it's kind of hard to know exactly
what you're doing and what's going to
make the biggest difference because I'm
the one doing it, right? As someone like
yourself who's on the outside looking
in, you might have a question that I
might not have even realized was
important to answer. So, if there's
anything like that, please feel free to
put them in the comments below and I'm
happy to answer. But if nothing else,
thank you so much for watching today.
Don't forget to subscribe and as always,
happy networking.